Hi all! Its time for stg that has never been befor, but We where begging for it.
The big frost are comming
Its gona be an other new test on the system, to prove that it can make it trough this winter.
And this is why I held and hold everybody back, till we dont finish this test
And dont finsih it with succes, to spend your money on this, untill we find out if the system
stands these huge minuses. The forcast says -10s for night of the next week, and thy daily maxes are to be no more then -5.
We'll see what happens.
Right now its the luckiest time for the greenhouse. Its damn cold but we dont care as the sun shines.
If this damn cold comes with cloudy weather, thats worst case, but we had that already.
Now I would like to show you whats the temperature.
In fact Im worm in this pullower.
I brougt the laptop out to not only believe the thermometer.
I can reach the Arduino datalogger with the laptop
we can get digital measures with accuracy of one hudreds of a celsius.
By the way its 12:30, this is the daily peak.
Around two its the hottest but still this is a nice hot, not pullover rather t-shirt climate.
What I would like to show -I hope the camera can see it. Yes it visible-
These are the back wall barrels.
You can see the cold sport as there is the vapor.
The vapor is on the coldes surfaces. The intresting thing i would like to show you.
That the upper pert of the barrel is dry, while bellow its wet.
Thats shows how the water in the barrels heat up. Its like that on all barrels.
The measured data wont be accurete as the sunshine distract the dataloggera bit.
But after the sun has left, we can compare the data from morning and the afternoon
do find out how much we have gained a day.
Now lets check out whats out current state.
It says 20,5 C, thats the air temperature inside.
Compare this with the digital measures.
It says - if we could see it ... its shinnig from all directions, how should I hold it to be visible, I hope you can see it. -
The first number is the system water temp: 8,25C
The seccond one is inside air temp: 18,25C
The third one is the back wall: 16,5C
The fourth is outside temp: 4C
These are the important data. The point is we almost have 20C inside, while
the back wall is collecting the energy like crazy.
I hope we can gain 1,5-2C with this nice sunny day, we need that anyway.
How much sunshine the next week brings, or how few, thats the question. And its gona be intresting.
Lets get through this temperature topic, fingers crossed, check the temperature, see where the clouds are
Cause where the sun shines its fine, every other place is sad.
I think we will make, ithout problem. So here is an othe thing I would like to show you.
Here it is. Can you see it. Yes? No? The pees start flowering. This is my first one.
I interspaced radish and salas as the start growing big.
This is the radish planted by the National TV News . They grow realy fast.
This is the salad planted by index.hu (online news portal), so you can see the growth of a week.
Once again the radish of the National TV News.
Radish is growing nice.
The fish are fine. The water temp is a little lower than waht I would like, but no worry,
The current 8C is fine, I think we beat 9C till the afternoon.
Ok, I havent feed the fishies today, so we gonna feed tham. But before I had to put tha laptop away,
As trout is a grateful eater, they might splash.
They are nice fish in therms they are fun to feed.
They eat like that... They feel fine, they are approx 40 but no worry, I'll bring catfish soon.
According to the plan, the rest of the trout I'll keep until I can.
Ok, cross your fingers for me and the system to stand the comming big test of the weather.
Follow me on my webpage, of my facebook fanpage, or wherever you want as you like it.
Take care, bye!